doc-content/enterprise-only/processes/process-instance-migration-installing-service-proc.adoc, before:

[id='process-instance-migration-installing-service-proc']
= Installing the process instance migration service

You can use the process instance migration (PIM) service to create, export and execute migration plans. The PIM service is provided through a GitHub repository. To install the PIM service, clone the GitHub repository, then run the service and access it in a web browser.

.Prerequisites
* You have defined processes in a backup-ed {PRODUCT} development environment.

.Procedure
. Download the `{PRODUCT_FILE}-add-ons.zip` file from the {PRODUCT_DOWNLOAD_LINK}[Software Downloads] page for {PRODUCT} {PRODUCT_VERSION}.
. Unzip the downloaded archive.
. Move the `{PRODUCT_FILE}-process-migration-service-standalone.jar` file from the add-ons archive to a desired location.
. In the location, create a YAML file containing the kieserver and Thorntail configuration, for example:
+
----
thorntail:
  deployment:
    process-migration.war:
      jaxrs:
        application-path: /rest
      web:
        login-config:
          auth-method: BASIC
          security-domain: pim
        security-constraints:
          - url-pattern: /*
            roles: [ admin ]
          - url-pattern: /health/*
  datasources:
    data-sources:
      pimDS:
        driver-name: h2
        connection-url: jdbc:h2:mem:test;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE
        user-name: DS_USERNAME
        password: DS_PASSWORD
  security:
    security-domains:
      pim:
        classic-authentication:
          login-modules:
            UsersRoles:
              code: UsersRoles
              flag: required
              module-options:
                usersProperties: application-users.properties
                rolesProperties: application-roles.properties
kieservers:
  - host: http://localhost:8080/kie-server/services/rest/server
    username: KIESERVER_USERNAME
    password: KIESERVER_PASSWORD
  - host: http://localhost:8280/kie-server/services/rest/server
    username: KIESERVER_USERNAME
    password: KIESERVER_PASSWORD1
----
. Start the PIM service:
+
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ java -jar {PRODUCT_FILE}-process-migration-service-standalone.jar -s./config.yml
----
. After the PIM service is up and running, enter `\http://localhost:8080` in a web browser.

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-7468-master: Added a step related to driver and classpath.

doc-content/enterprise-only/processes/process-instance-migration-installing-service-proc.adoc, after:

[id='process-instance-migration-installing-service-proc']
= Installing the process instance migration service

You can use the process instance migration (PIM) service to create, export and execute migration plans. The PIM service is provided through a GitHub repository. To install the PIM service, clone the GitHub repository, then run the service and access it in a web browser.

.Prerequisites
* You have defined processes in a backup-ed {PRODUCT} development environment.

.Procedure
. Download the `{PRODUCT_FILE}-add-ons.zip` file from the {PRODUCT_DOWNLOAD_LINK}[Software Downloads] page for {PRODUCT} {PRODUCT_VERSION}.
. Unzip the downloaded archive.
. Move the `{PRODUCT_FILE}-process-migration-service-standalone.jar` file from the add-ons archive to a desired location.
. In the location, create a YAML file containing the kieserver and Thorntail configuration, for example:
+
----
thorntail:
  deployment:
    process-migration.war:
      jaxrs:
        application-path: /rest
      web:
        login-config:
          auth-method: BASIC
          security-domain: pim
        security-constraints:
          - url-pattern: /*
            roles: [ admin ]
          - url-pattern: /health/*
  datasources:
    data-sources:
      pimDS:
        driver-name: h2
        connection-url: jdbc:h2:mem:test;DB_CLOSE_DELAY=-1;DB_CLOSE_ON_EXIT=FALSE
        user-name: DS_USERNAME
        password: DS_PASSWORD
  security:
    security-domains:
      pim:
        classic-authentication:
          login-modules:
            UsersRoles:
              code: UsersRoles
              flag: required
              module-options:
                usersProperties: application-users.properties
                rolesProperties: application-roles.properties
kieservers:
  - host: http://localhost:8080/kie-server/services/rest/server
    username: KIESERVER_USERNAME
    password: KIESERVER_PASSWORD
  - host: http://localhost:8280/kie-server/services/rest/server
    username: KIESERVER_USERNAME
    password: KIESERVER_PASSWORD1
----
. Start the PIM service:
+
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ java -jar {PRODUCT_FILE}-process-migration-service-standalone.jar -s./config.yml
----
. To enable Thorntail to auto detect a JDBC driver, add the a dd the `JAR` file with the driver to the `thorntail.classpath` system property. For example, execute the following command:
+
[source,subs="attributes+"]
----
$ java -Dthorntail.classpath=./h2-{PRODUCT_FILE}-process-migration-service-standalone.jar -s./config.yml
----
+
NOTE: The `h2` JDBC driver is included by default. You can use different JDBC drivers as per your requirements to connect to the external databases.
. After the PIM service is up and running, enter `\http://localhost:8080` in a web browser.
