doc-content/shared-kie-docs/src/main/asciidoc/KieServer/kie-server-system-properties-ref.adoc, before:

[id='kie-server-system-properties-ref_{context}']

= {KIE_SERVER} system properties

The {KIE_SERVER} accepts the following system properties (bootstrap switches) to configure the behavior of the server:

.System properties for disabling {KIE_SERVER} extensions
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.drools.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the Business Rule Management (BRM) support (for example, rules support).

ifdef::PAM,JBPM[]
|`org.jbpm.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PRODUCT} support (for example, processes support).

|`org.jbpm.ui.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PRODUCT} UI extension.

|`org.jbpm.case.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PRODUCT} case management extension.
endif::[]

|`org.optaplanner.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PLANNER} support.

|`org.kie.prometheus.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|If set to `true`, disables the Prometheus Server extension.

|`org.kie.scenariosimulation.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|If set to `true`, disables the Test scenario Server extension.

|`org.kie.dmn.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {KIE_SERVER} DMN support.

|`org.kie.swagger.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {KIE_SERVER} swagger documentation support
|===

NOTE: Some {CONTROLLER} properties listed in the following table are marked as required. Set these properties when you create or remove {KIE_SERVER} containers in {CENTRAL}. If you use the {KIE_SERVER} separately without any interaction with {CENTRAL}, you do not need to set the required properties.

.System properties required for {CONTROLLER}
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.kie.server.id`
|String
|N/A
|An arbitrary ID to be assigned to the server. If a {HEADLESS_CONTROLLER} is configured outside of {CENTRAL}, this is the ID under which the server connects to the {HEADLESS_CONTROLLER} to fetch the KIE container configurations. If not provided, the ID is automatically generated.

|`org.kie.server.user`
|String
|`kieserver`
|The user name used to connect with the {KIE_SERVER} from the {CONTROLLER}, required when running in managed mode. Set this property in {CENTRAL} system properties. Set this property when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.pwd`
|String
|`kieserver1!`
|The password used to connect with the {KIE_SERVER} from the {CONTROLLER}, required when running in managed mode. Set this property in {CENTRAL} system properties. Set this property when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.token`
|String
|N/A
|A property that enables you to use token-based authentication between the {CONTROLLER} and the {KIE_SERVER} instead of the basic user name and password authentication. The {CONTROLLER} sends the token as a parameter in the request header. The server requires long-lived access tokens because the tokens are not refreshed.

|`org.kie.server.location`
|URL
|N/A
|The URL of the {KIE_SERVER} instance used by the {CONTROLLER} to call back on this server, for example, `\http://localhost:8230/kie-server/services/rest/server`. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller`
|Comma-separated list
|N/A
|A comma-separated list of URLs to the {CONTROLLER} REST endpoints, for example, `\http://localhost:8080/{URL_COMPONENT_CENTRAL}/rest/controller`. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller.user`
|String
|`kieserver`
|The user name to connect to the {CONTROLLER} REST API. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller.pwd`
|String
|`kieserver1!`
|The password to connect to the {CONTROLLER} REST API. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller.token`
|String
|N/A
|A property that enables you to use token-based authentication between the {KIE_SERVER} and the {CONTROLLER} instead of the basic user name and password authentication. The server sends the token as a parameter in the request header. The server requires long-lived access tokens because the tokens are not refreshed.

|`org.kie.server.controller.connect`
|Long
|`10000`
|The waiting time in milliseconds between repeated attempts to connect the {KIE_SERVER} to the {CONTROLLER} when the server starts.
|===

ifdef::PAM,JBPM[]
.Persistence system properties
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.kie.server.persistence.ds`
|String
|N/A
|A data source JNDI name. Set this property when enabling the BPM support.

|`org.kie.server.persistence.tm`
|String
|N/A
|A transaction manager platform for Hibernate properties. Set this property when enabling the BPM support.

|`org.kie.server.persistence.dialect`
|String
|N/A
|The Hibernate dialect to be used. Set this property when enabling the BPM support.

|`org.kie.server.persistence.schema`
|String
|N/A
|The database schema to be used.
|===

.Executor system properties
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.kie.executor.interval`
|Integer
|`0`
|The time between the moment the {PRODUCT} executor finishes a job and the moment it starts a new one, in a time unit specified in the `org.kie.executor.timeunit` property.

|`org.kie.executor.timeunit`
| https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/index.html?java/util/concurrent/TimeUnit.html[`java.util.concurrent.TimeUnit`] constant
|`SECONDS`
|The time unit in which the `org.kie.executor.interval` property is specified.

|`org.kie.executor.pool.size`
|Integer
|`1`
|The number of threads used by the {PRODUCT} executor.

|`org.kie.executor.retry.count`
|Integer
|`3`
|The number of retries the {PRODUCT} executor attempts on a failed job.

|`org.kie.executor.jms.queue`
|String
|`queue/KIE.SERVER.EXECUTOR`
|Job executor JMS queue for {KIE_SERVER}.

|`org.kie.executor.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {KIE_SERVER} executor.
|===

.Human task system properties
[cols="2,1a,1,3a", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.jbpm.ht.callback`
|`mvel`

`ldap`

`db`

`jaas`

`props`

`custom`
|`jaas`
|A property that specifies the implementation of user group callback to be used:

* `mvel`: Default; mostly used for testing.
* `ldap`: LDAP; requires additional configuration in the `jbpm.usergroup.callback.properties` file.
* `db`: Database; requires additional configuration in the `jbpm.usergroup.callback.properties` file.
* `jaas`: JAAS; delegates to the container to fetch information about user data.
* `props`: A simple property file; requires additional file that keeps all information (users and groups).
* `custom`: A custom implementation; specify the fully qualified name of the class in the `org.jbpm.ht.custom.callback` property.

|`org.jbpm.ht.custom.callback`
|Fully qualified name
|N/A
|A custom implementation of the `UserGroupCallback` interface in case the `org.jbpm.ht.callback` property is set to `custom`.

|`org.jbpm.task.cleanup.enabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|Enables task cleanup job listener to remove tasks once the process instance is completed.

|`org.jbpm.task.bam.enabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|Enables task BAM module to store task related information.

|`org.jbpm.ht.admin.user`
|String
|`Administrator`
|User who can access all the tasks from {KIE_SERVER}.

|`org.jbpm.ht.admin.group`
|String
|`Administrators`
|The group that users must belong to in order to view all the tasks from {KIE_SERVER}.
|===
endif::[]

.System properties for loading keystore
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`kie.keystore.keyStoreURL`
|URL
|N/A
|The URL is used to load a Java Cryptography Extension KeyStore (JCEKS). For example, `file:///home/kie/keystores/keystore.jceks`.

|`kie.keystore.keyStorePwd`
|String
|N/A
|The password is used for the JCEKS.

|`kie.keystore.key.server.alias`
|String
|N/A
|The alias name of the key for REST services where the password is stored.

|`kie.keystore.key.server.pwd`
|String
|N/A
|The password of an alias for REST services.

|`kie.keystore.key.ctrl.alias`
|String
|N/A
|The alias of the key for default REST {CONTROLLER}.

|`kie.keystore.key.ctrl.pwd`
|String
|N/A
|The password of an alias for default REST {CONTROLLER}.
|===

.Other system properties
[cols="30%,20%,20%,30%", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`kie.maven.settings.custom`
|Path
|N/A
|The location of a custom `settings.xml` file for Maven configuration.

|`kie.server.jms.queues.response`
|String
|`queue/KIE.SERVER.RESPONSE`
|The response queue JNDI name for JMS.

|`org.drools.server.filter.classes`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|When set to `true`, the Drools {KIE_SERVER} extension accepts custom classes annotated by the `XmlRootElement` or `Remotable` annotations only.

ifdef::PAM,JBPM[]
|`org.kie.server.bypass.auth.user`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|A property that enables you to bypass the authenticated user for task-related operations, for example queries.

|`org.jbpm.rule.task.firelimit`
|Integer
|`10000`
|This property specifies the maximum number of executed rules to avoid situations where rules run into an infinite loop and make the server completely unresponsive.

|`org.jbpm.ejb.timer.local.cache`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|This property turns off the EJB Timers local cache.
endif::[]

|`org.kie.server.domain`
|String
|N/A
|The JAAS `LoginContext` domain used to authenticate users when using JMS.

|`org.kie.server.repo`
|Path
|`.`
|The location where {KIE_SERVER} state files are stored.

|`org.kie.server.sync.deploy`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|A property that instructs the {KIE_SERVER} to hold the deployment until the {CONTROLLER} provides the container deployment configuration. This property only affects servers running in managed mode. The following options are available:

* `false`: The connection to the {CONTROLLER} is asynchronous. The application starts, connects to the {CONTROLLER}, and once successful, deploys the containers. The application accepts requests even before the containers are available.
* `true`: The deployment of the server application joins the {CONTROLLER} connection thread with the main deployment and awaits its completion. This option can lead to a potential deadlock in case more applications are on the same server. Use only one application on one server instance.

|`org.kie.server.startup.strategy`
|`ControllerBasedStartupStrategy`, `LocalContainersStartupStrategy`
|`ControllerBasedStartupStrategy`
|The Startup strategy of {KIE_SERVER} used to control the KIE containers that are deployed and the order in which they are deployed.

|`org.kie.server.mgmt.api.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|When set to `true`, disables {KIE_SERVER} management API.

|`org.kie.server.xstream.enabled.packages`
|Java packages like `org.kie.example`. You can also specify wildcard expressions like `org.kie.example.*`.
|N/A
|A property that specifies additional packages to allowlist for marshalling using XStream.

|`org.kie.store.services.class`
|String
|`org.drools.persistence.jpa.KnowledgeStoreServiceImpl`
|Fully qualified name of the class that implements `KieStoreServices` that are responsible for bootstrapping KieSession instances.

|`org.kie.server.strict.id.format`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|While using JSON marshalling, if the property is set to `true`, it will always return a response in the proper JSON format. For example, if the original response contains only a single number, then the response is wrapped in a JSON format. For example, *{"value" : 1}*.
|===

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-7656-master: Added a kie server system property.

doc-content/shared-kie-docs/src/main/asciidoc/KieServer/kie-server-system-properties-ref.adoc, after:

[id='kie-server-system-properties-ref_{context}']

= {KIE_SERVER} system properties

The {KIE_SERVER} accepts the following system properties (bootstrap switches) to configure the behavior of the server:

.System properties for disabling {KIE_SERVER} extensions
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.drools.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the Business Rule Management (BRM) support (for example, rules support).

ifdef::PAM,JBPM[]
|`org.jbpm.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PRODUCT} support (for example, processes support).

|`org.jbpm.ui.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PRODUCT} UI extension.

|`org.jbpm.case.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PRODUCT} case management extension.
endif::[]

|`org.optaplanner.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {PLANNER} support.

|`org.kie.prometheus.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|If set to `true`, disables the Prometheus Server extension.

|`org.kie.scenariosimulation.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|If set to `true`, disables the Test scenario Server extension.

|`org.kie.dmn.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {KIE_SERVER} DMN support.

|`org.kie.swagger.server.ext.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {KIE_SERVER} swagger documentation support
|===

NOTE: Some {CONTROLLER} properties listed in the following table are marked as required. Set these properties when you create or remove {KIE_SERVER} containers in {CENTRAL}. If you use the {KIE_SERVER} separately without any interaction with {CENTRAL}, you do not need to set the required properties.

.System properties required for {CONTROLLER}
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.kie.server.id`
|String
|N/A
|An arbitrary ID to be assigned to the server. If a {HEADLESS_CONTROLLER} is configured outside of {CENTRAL}, this is the ID under which the server connects to the {HEADLESS_CONTROLLER} to fetch the KIE container configurations. If not provided, the ID is automatically generated.

|`org.kie.server.user`
|String
|`kieserver`
|The user name used to connect with the {KIE_SERVER} from the {CONTROLLER}, required when running in managed mode. Set this property in {CENTRAL} system properties. Set this property when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.pwd`
|String
|`kieserver1!`
|The password used to connect with the {KIE_SERVER} from the {CONTROLLER}, required when running in managed mode. Set this property in {CENTRAL} system properties. Set this property when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.token`
|String
|N/A
|A property that enables you to use token-based authentication between the {CONTROLLER} and the {KIE_SERVER} instead of the basic user name and password authentication. The {CONTROLLER} sends the token as a parameter in the request header. The server requires long-lived access tokens because the tokens are not refreshed.

|`org.kie.server.location`
|URL
|N/A
|The URL of the {KIE_SERVER} instance used by the {CONTROLLER} to call back on this server, for example, `\http://localhost:8230/kie-server/services/rest/server`. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller`
|Comma-separated list
|N/A
|A comma-separated list of URLs to the {CONTROLLER} REST endpoints, for example, `\http://localhost:8080/{URL_COMPONENT_CENTRAL}/rest/controller`. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller.user`
|String
|`kieserver`
|The user name to connect to the {CONTROLLER} REST API. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller.pwd`
|String
|`kieserver1!`
|The password to connect to the {CONTROLLER} REST API. Setting this property is required when using a {CONTROLLER}.

|`org.kie.server.controller.token`
|String
|N/A
|A property that enables you to use token-based authentication between the {KIE_SERVER} and the {CONTROLLER} instead of the basic user name and password authentication. The server sends the token as a parameter in the request header. The server requires long-lived access tokens because the tokens are not refreshed.

|`org.kie.server.controller.connect`
|Long
|`10000`
|The waiting time in milliseconds between repeated attempts to connect the {KIE_SERVER} to the {CONTROLLER} when the server starts.
|===

ifdef::PAM,JBPM[]
.Persistence system properties
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.kie.server.persistence.ds`
|String
|N/A
|A data source JNDI name. Set this property when enabling the BPM support.

|`org.kie.server.persistence.tm`
|String
|N/A
|A transaction manager platform for Hibernate properties. Set this property when enabling the BPM support.

|`org.kie.server.persistence.dialect`
|String
|N/A
|The Hibernate dialect to be used. Set this property when enabling the BPM support.

|`org.kie.server.persistence.schema`
|String
|N/A
|The database schema to be used.
|===

.Executor system properties
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.kie.executor.interval`
|Integer
|`0`
|The time between the moment the {PRODUCT} executor finishes a job and the moment it starts a new one, in a time unit specified in the `org.kie.executor.timeunit` property.

|`org.kie.executor.timeunit`
| https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/index.html?java/util/concurrent/TimeUnit.html[`java.util.concurrent.TimeUnit`] constant
|`SECONDS`
|The time unit in which the `org.kie.executor.interval` property is specified.

|`org.kie.executor.pool.size`
|Integer
|`1`
|The number of threads used by the {PRODUCT} executor.

|`org.kie.executor.retry.count`
|Integer
|`3`
|The number of retries the {PRODUCT} executor attempts on a failed job.

|`org.kie.executor.jms.queue`
|String
|`queue/KIE.SERVER.EXECUTOR`
|Job executor JMS queue for {KIE_SERVER}.

|`org.kie.executor.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|If set to `true`, disables the {KIE_SERVER} executor.
|===

.Human task system properties
[cols="2,1a,1,3a", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`org.jbpm.ht.callback`
|`mvel`

`ldap`

`db`

`jaas`

`props`

`custom`
|`jaas`
|A property that specifies the implementation of user group callback to be used:

* `mvel`: Default; mostly used for testing.
* `ldap`: LDAP; requires additional configuration in the `jbpm.usergroup.callback.properties` file.
* `db`: Database; requires additional configuration in the `jbpm.usergroup.callback.properties` file.
* `jaas`: JAAS; delegates to the container to fetch information about user data.
* `props`: A simple property file; requires additional file that keeps all information (users and groups).
* `custom`: A custom implementation; specify the fully qualified name of the class in the `org.jbpm.ht.custom.callback` property.

|`org.jbpm.ht.custom.callback`
|Fully qualified name
|N/A
|A custom implementation of the `UserGroupCallback` interface in case the `org.jbpm.ht.callback` property is set to `custom`.

|`org.jbpm.task.cleanup.enabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|Enables task cleanup job listener to remove tasks once the process instance is completed.

|`org.jbpm.task.bam.enabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|Enables task BAM module to store task related information.

|`org.jbpm.ht.admin.user`
|String
|`Administrator`
|User who can access all the tasks from {KIE_SERVER}.

|`org.jbpm.ht.admin.group`
|String
|`Administrators`
|The group that users must belong to in order to view all the tasks from {KIE_SERVER}.
|===
endif::[]

.System properties for loading keystore
[cols="2,1,1,3", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`kie.keystore.keyStoreURL`
|URL
|N/A
|The URL is used to load a Java Cryptography Extension KeyStore (JCEKS). For example, `file:///home/kie/keystores/keystore.jceks`.

|`kie.keystore.keyStorePwd`
|String
|N/A
|The password is used for the JCEKS.

|`kie.keystore.key.server.alias`
|String
|N/A
|The alias name of the key for REST services where the password is stored.

|`kie.keystore.key.server.pwd`
|String
|N/A
|The password of an alias for REST services.

|`kie.keystore.key.ctrl.alias`
|String
|N/A
|The alias of the key for default REST {CONTROLLER}.

|`kie.keystore.key.ctrl.pwd`
|String
|N/A
|The password of an alias for default REST {CONTROLLER}.
|===

.Other system properties
[cols="30%,20%,20%,30%", options="header"]
|===
|Property
|Values
|Default
|Description

|`kie.maven.settings.custom`
|Path
|N/A
|The location of a custom `settings.xml` file for Maven configuration.

|`kie.server.jms.queues.response`
|String
|`queue/KIE.SERVER.RESPONSE`
|The response queue JNDI name for JMS.

|`org.drools.server.filter.classes`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|When set to `true`, the Drools {KIE_SERVER} extension accepts custom classes annotated by the `XmlRootElement` or `Remotable` annotations only.

ifdef::PAM,JBPM[]
|`org.kie.server.bypass.auth.user`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|A property that enables you to bypass the authenticated user for task-related operations, for example queries.

|`org.jbpm.rule.task.firelimit`
|Integer
|`10000`
|This property specifies the maximum number of executed rules to avoid situations where rules run into an infinite loop and make the server completely unresponsive.

|`org.jbpm.ejb.timer.local.cache`
|`true`, `false`
|`true`
|This property turns off the EJB Timers local cache.
endif::[]

|`org.kie.server.domain`
|String
|N/A
|The JAAS `LoginContext` domain used to authenticate users when using JMS.

|`org.kie.server.repo`
|Path
|`.`
|The location where {KIE_SERVER} state files are stored.

|`org.kie.server.sync.deploy`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|A property that instructs the {KIE_SERVER} to hold the deployment until the {CONTROLLER} provides the container deployment configuration. This property only affects servers running in managed mode. The following options are available:

* `false`: The connection to the {CONTROLLER} is asynchronous. The application starts, connects to the {CONTROLLER}, and once successful, deploys the containers. The application accepts requests even before the containers are available.
* `true`: The deployment of the server application joins the {CONTROLLER} connection thread with the main deployment and awaits its completion. This option can lead to a potential deadlock in case more applications are on the same server. Use only one application on one server instance.

|`org.kie.server.startup.strategy`
|`ControllerBasedStartupStrategy`, `LocalContainersStartupStrategy`
|`ControllerBasedStartupStrategy`
|The Startup strategy of {KIE_SERVER} used to control the KIE containers that are deployed and the order in which they are deployed.

|`org.kie.server.mgmt.api.disabled`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|When set to `true`, disables {KIE_SERVER} management API.

|`org.kie.server.xstream.enabled.packages`
|Java packages like `org.kie.example`. You can also specify wildcard expressions like `org.kie.example.*`.
|N/A
|A property that specifies additional packages to allowlist for marshalling using XStream.

|`org.kie.store.services.class`
|String
|`org.drools.persistence.jpa.KnowledgeStoreServiceImpl`
|Fully qualified name of the class that implements `KieStoreServices` that are responsible for bootstrapping KieSession instances.

|`org.kie.server.strict.id.format`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|While using JSON marshalling, if the property is set to `true`, it will always return a response in the proper JSON format. For example, if the original response contains only a single number, then the response is wrapped in a JSON format. For example, *{"value" : 1}*.

|`org.kie.server.strict.jaxb.format`
|`true`, `false`
|`false`
|When the property is set to `true`, the {KIE_SERVER} will interpret data in the REST API payload. For example, if a data field is supposed to be a number but it is not a number, you receive an error.

|===
