doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-legacy-EXPECT-proc.adoc, before:

[id='test-scenarios-legacy-EXPECT-proc']
= Adding EXPECT results in test scenarios (legacy)

The *EXPECT* section defines the expected results based on the *GIVEN* input facts. That is, *GIVEN* the input facts, *EXPECT* other specified facts to be valid or entire rules to be activated. For example, with the given facts of an applicant under the age of 21 in the scenario, the *EXPECT* results could be `LoanApplication` with `approved` set to `false` (as a result of the underage applicant), or could be the activation of the `Underage` rule as a whole.

.Prerequisites
* All data objects required for your test scenario have been created or imported and are listed in the *Data Objects* tab of the *Test Scenarios (Legacy)* designer.

.Procedure
. In the *Test Scenarios (Legacy)* designer, click *EXPECT* to open the *New expectation* window with the available facts.
+
.Add EXPECT results to the test scenario
image::project-data/test-scenario-expected-rules.png[Add EXPECT results to the test scenario]
+
The list includes the following options, depending on the data in the *GIVEN* section and the data objects available in the *Data Objects* tab of the test scenarios designer:

* *Rule:* Use this to specify a particular rule in the project that is expected to be activated as a result of the *GIVEN* input. Type the name of a rule that is expected to be activated or select it from the list of rules, and then in the test scenarios designer, specify the number of times the rule should be activated.
* *Fact value:* Use this to select a fact and define values for it that are expected to be valid as a result of the facts defined in the *GIVEN* section. The facts are listed by the *Fact name* previously defined for the *GIVEN* input.
* *Any fact that matches:* Use this to validate that at least one fact with the specified values exists as a result of the *GIVEN* input.
+
. Choose a fact for the desired expectation (such as *Fact value:* `application`) and click *Add* or *OK*.
. Click the fact in the test scenarios designer and select the field to be added and modified.
+
.Modify a fact field
image::project-data/test-scenario-field-value.png[Modify a fact field]
+
. Set the field values to what is expected to be valid as a result of the *GIVEN* input (such as `approved` | `equals` | `false`).
. Continue adding any other *EXPECT* input data for the scenario and click *Save* in the test scenarios designer to save your work.
. After you have defined and saved all *GIVEN*, *EXPECT*, and other data for the scenario, click *Run scenario* in the upper-right corner to run this `.scenario` file, or click *Run all scenarios* to run all saved `.scenario` files in the project package (if there are multiple). Although the *Run scenario* option does not require the individual `.scenario` file to be saved, the *Run all scenarios* option does require all `.scenario` files to be saved.
+
If the test fails, address any problems described in the *Alerts* message at the bottom of the window, review all components in the scenario, and try again to validate the scenario until the scenario passes.
+
. Click *Save* in the test scenarios designer to save your work after all changes are complete.

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-5115-master: Added the note about regarding how to validate the list of strings in the content.

doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-legacy-EXPECT-proc.adoc, after:

[id='test-scenarios-legacy-EXPECT-proc']
= Adding EXPECT results in test scenarios (legacy)

The *EXPECT* section defines the expected results based on the *GIVEN* input facts. That is, *GIVEN* the input facts, *EXPECT* other specified facts to be valid or entire rules to be activated. For example, with the given facts of an applicant under the age of 21 in the scenario, the *EXPECT* results could be `LoanApplication` with `approved` set to `false` (as a result of the underage applicant), or could be the activation of the `Underage` rule as a whole.

.Prerequisites
* All data objects required for your test scenario have been created or imported and are listed in the *Data Objects* tab of the *Test Scenarios (Legacy)* designer.

NOTE: In the legacy test scenarios designer, you can use the `=["value1", "value2"]` string format in the *EXPECT* field to validate the list of strings.

.Procedure
. In the *Test Scenarios (Legacy)* designer, click *EXPECT* to open the *New expectation* window with the available facts.
+
.Add EXPECT results to the test scenario
image::project-data/test-scenario-expected-rules.png[Add EXPECT results to the test scenario]
+
The list includes the following options, depending on the data in the *GIVEN* section and the data objects available in the *Data Objects* tab of the test scenarios designer:

* *Rule:* Use this to specify a particular rule in the project that is expected to be activated as a result of the *GIVEN* input. Type the name of a rule that is expected to be activated or select it from the list of rules, and then in the test scenarios designer, specify the number of times the rule should be activated.
* *Fact value:* Use this to select a fact and define values for it that are expected to be valid as a result of the facts defined in the *GIVEN* section. The facts are listed by the *Fact name* previously defined for the *GIVEN* input.
* *Any fact that matches:* Use this to validate that at least one fact with the specified values exists as a result of the *GIVEN* input.
+
. Choose a fact for the desired expectation (such as *Fact value:* `application`) and click *Add* or *OK*.
. Click the fact in the test scenarios designer and select the field to be added and modified.
+
.Modify a fact field
image::project-data/test-scenario-field-value.png[Modify a fact field]
+
. Set the field values to what is expected to be valid as a result of the *GIVEN* input (such as `approved` | `equals` | `false`).
. Continue adding any other *EXPECT* input data for the scenario and click *Save* in the test scenarios designer to save your work.
. After you have defined and saved all *GIVEN*, *EXPECT*, and other data for the scenario, click *Run scenario* in the upper-right corner to run this `.scenario` file, or click *Run all scenarios* to run all saved `.scenario` files in the project package (if there are multiple). Although the *Run scenario* option does not require the individual `.scenario` file to be saved, the *Run all scenarios* option does require all `.scenario` files to be saved.
+
If the test fails, address any problems described in the *Alerts* message at the bottom of the window, review all components in the scenario, and try again to validate the scenario until the scenario passes.
+
. Click *Save* in the test scenarios designer to save your work after all changes are complete.
