doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-designer-expressions-syntax-rule-based-ref.adoc, before:

[id='test-designer-expressions-syntax-rule-based-ref']
= Expression syntax in rule-based test scenarios

The following rule-based test scenario definition expressions are supported by the test scenarios designer:

.Description of expressions syntax
[width="",cols="3,6"]
|===
|Operator | Description

|=
|Specifies equal to a value. This is default for all columns and is the only operator supported by the GIVEN column.

|=, =!, <>
|Specifies inequality of a value. This operator can be combined with other operators.

|<, >, \<=, >=
|Specifies a comparison: less than, greater than, less or equals than, and greater or equals than.

|[value1, value2, value3]
|Specifies a list of values. If one or more values are valid, the scenario definition is evaluated as true.

|expression1; expression2; expression3
|Specifies a list of expressions. If all expressions are valid, the scenario definition is evaluated as true.

|===

[NOTE]
====
An empty cell is skipped from evaluation. To define an empty string, use `=`,`[]`, or `;`. To define a null value, use `null`.
====

.Example expressions
[width="",cols="2,9"]
|===
|Expression | Description

|-1
|The actual value is equal to -1.

|< 0
|The actual value is less than 0.

|! > 0
|The actual value is not greater than 0.

|[-1, 0, 1]
|The actual value is equal to either -1 or 0 or 1.

|<> [1, -1]
|The actual value is neither equal to 1 nor -1.

|! 100; 0
|The actual value is not equal to 100 but is equal to 0.

|!= < 0; <> > 1
|The actual value is neither less than 0 nor greater than 1.

|<> \<= 0; >= 1
|The actual value is neither less than 0 nor equal to 0 but is greater than or equal to 1.
|===

[NOTE]
====
You can refer to the supported commands and syntax in the *Scenario Cheatsheet* tab on the right of the rule-based test scenarios designer.
====

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-4999-master: Invoking java methods changes are added in the test scenario document.

doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-designer-expressions-syntax-rule-based-ref.adoc, after:

[id='test-designer-expressions-syntax-rule-based-ref']
= Expression syntax in rule-based test scenarios

The following rule-based test scenario definition expressions are supported by the test scenarios designer:

.Description of expressions syntax
[width="",cols="3,6"]
|===
|Operator | Description

|=
|Specifies equal to a value. This is default for all columns and is the only operator supported by the GIVEN column.

|=, =!, <>
|Specifies inequality of a value. This operator can be combined with other operators.

|<, >, \<=, >=
|Specifies a comparison: less than, greater than, less or equals than, and greater or equals than.

|[value1, value2, value3]
|Specifies a list of values. If one or more values are valid, the scenario definition is evaluated as true.

|expression1; expression2; expression3
|Specifies a list of expressions. If all expressions are valid, the scenario definition is evaluated as true.

|#
|This operator is used to set the java expression value to a property cell which can be executed as a java method.

|===

[NOTE]
====
An empty cell is skipped from evaluation. To define an empty string, use `=`,`[]`, or `;`. To define a null value, use `null`.
====

.Example expressions
[width="",cols="2,9"]
|===
|Expression | Description

|-1
|The actual value is equal to -1.

|< 0
|The actual value is less than 0.

|! > 0
|The actual value is not greater than 0.

|[-1, 0, 1]
|The actual value is equal to either -1 or 0 or 1.

|<> [1, -1]
|The actual value is neither equal to 1 nor -1.

|! 100; 0
|The actual value is not equal to 100 but is equal to 0.

|!= < 0; <> > 1
|The actual value is neither less than 0 nor greater than 1.

|<> \<= 0; >= 1
|The actual value is neither less than 0 nor equal to 0 but is greater than or equal to 1.
|===

[NOTE]
====
You can refer to the supported commands and syntax in the *Scenario Cheatsheet* tab on the right of the rule-based test scenarios designer.
====
