doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-designer-create-test-template-rule-based-proc.adoc, before:

[id='test-designer-create-test-template-rule-based-proc']
= Creating a test scenario template for rule-based test scenarios

Create a test scenario template for rule-based test scenarios by following the procedure below to validate your rules and data.

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, go to *Menu* -> *Design* -> *Projects* and click the project for which you want to create the test scenario.
. Click *Add Asset* -> *Test Scenario*.
. Enter a *Test Scenario* name and select the appropriate *Package*. The package you select must contain all the required data objects and rule assets have been assigned or will be assigned.
. Select *RULE* as the *Source type*.
. Click *Ok* to create and open the test scenario in the test scenarios designer.
. To map the *GIVEN* column header to a data object,
.. Click an instance header in the *GIVEN* section.
.. Select the data object from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Add*.
. To insert more properties of the data object, right-click the property header and select *Insert column right* or *Insert column left* as required.
. To map a data object field to a property cell,
.. Click a property cell.
.. Select the data object field from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Add*.
. To map the *EXPECT* column header to a data object,
.. Click an instance header in the *EXPECT* section.
.. Select the data object from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Add*.
. To insert more properties of the data object, right-click the property header and select *Insert column right* or *Insert column left* as required.
. To map a data object field to a property cell,
.. Click a property cell.
.. Select the data object field from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Add*.
+
Use the contextual menu to add or remove columns as needed.

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-4999-master: Invoking java methods changes are added in the test scenario document.

doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-designer-create-test-template-rule-based-proc.adoc, after:

[id='test-designer-create-test-template-rule-based-proc']
= Creating a test scenario template for rule-based test scenarios

Create a test scenario template for rule-based test scenarios by following the procedure below to validate your rules and data.

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, go to *Menu* -> *Design* -> *Projects* and click the project for which you want to create the test scenario.
. Click *Add Asset* -> *Test Scenario*.
. Enter a *Test Scenario* name and select the appropriate *Package*. The package you select must contain all the required data objects and rule assets have been assigned or will be assigned.
. Select *RULE* as the *Source type*.
. Click *Ok* to create and open the test scenario in the test scenarios designer.
. To map the *GIVEN* column header to a data object,
.. Click an instance header in the *GIVEN* section.
.. Select the data object from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Insert Data Object*.
. To map the *EXPECT* column header to a data object,
.. Click an instance header in the *EXPECT* section.
.. Select the data object from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Insert Data Object*.
. To map a data object field to a property cell,
.. Click a property cell.
.. Select the data object field from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Insert Data Object*.
. To insert more properties of the data object, right-click the property header and select *Insert column right* or *Insert column left* as required.
. To call a java method to a property cell during test scenarios execution,
.. Click a property cell.
.. Select the data object field from the *Test Tools* tab.
.. Click *Insert Data Object*.
.. Optional: Click *Clear selection* to remove the selected data objects.
.. To insert more properties of the data object, right-click the property header and select *Insert column right* or *Insert column left* as required.
. Use the contextual menu to add or remove columns and rows as needed.

For more details about the expression syntax in rule-based scenarios, see xref:test-designer-expressions-syntax-rule-based-ref[].
