doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-designer-run-test-proc.adoc, before:

[id='test-designer-run-test-proc']
= Running the test scenarios

After creating a test scenario template and defining the test scenarios, you can run the tests to validate your business rules and data.

.Procedure
. To run defined test scenarios, do one of the following tasks:
* To execute all the available test scenarios in your project inside multiple assets, in the upper-right corner of your project page, click *Test*.
+
.Run all the test scenarios from the project view
image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-run-all-tests-button.png[Run all the test scenarios from the project view]
+
* To execute all the available test scenarios defined in a single `.scesim` file, at the top of the Test Scenario designer, click *Run Test* image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-run-test-icon.png[Run Test icon] icon.
* To run a single test scenario defined in a single `.scesim` file, right-click the row of the test scenario you want to run and select *Run scenario*.
. The *Test Report* panel pops out from the right of the designer or the project view and displays the test result overview and the scenario status.
+
[NOTE]
====
If the values entered into the test scenario table do not match the expected values, corresponding cells are highlighted in red.
====
+
. After the tests are executed, click *View Alerts* to open the *Alerts* panel at the bottom of the designer or the project view for the error messages.
+
. Make the necessary changes and run the test again until the scenario passes.

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-4115-master: Incorporating BXMSDOC-4116 changes in the same PR regarding visual test results diplaying expected and actual values.

doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-designer-run-test-proc.adoc, after:

[id='test-designer-run-test-proc']
= Running the test scenarios

After creating a test scenario template and defining the test scenarios, you can run the tests to validate your business rules and data.

.Procedure
. To run defined test scenarios, do one of the following tasks:
* To execute all the available test scenarios in your project inside multiple assets, in the upper-right corner of your project page, click *Test*.
+
.Run all the test scenarios from the project view
image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-run-all-tests-button.png[Run all the test scenarios from the project view]
+
* To execute all the available test scenarios defined in a single `.scesim` file, at the top of the Test Scenario designer, click *Run Test* image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-run-test-icon.png[Run Test icon] icon.
* To run a single test scenario defined in a single `.scesim` file, right-click the row of the test scenario you want to run and select *Run scenario*.
. The *Test Report* panel displays the overview of the tests and the scenario status.
+
After the tests are executed, if the values entered in the test scenario table do not match, the expected values in the corresponding cells are highlighted.
+
.Visual test results in Test Scenario
image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-visual-test-results.png[Visual test results in Test Scenario]
+

. To review the the error message in the pop-up window, hover your mouse cursor over the highlighted cell.
+
* To update the highlighted cell with the expected value, click `Apply`.
* If you do not want to apply any changes to the highlighted cell, click `Keep`.
. To open the *Alerts* panel at the bottom of the designer or the project view for the error messages, click *View Alerts*.
+
. Make the necessary changes and run the test again until the scenario passes.
