doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-coverage-report-rule-based-proc.adoc, before:

[id='test-scenarios-coverage-report-rule-based-proc']
= Generating coverage reports for rule-based test scenarios

In rule-based test scenarios, the *Coverage Report* tab contains the detailed information about the following:

* Number of available rules
* Number of fired rules
* Percentage of fired rules
* Percentage of executed rules represented as a pie chart
* Number of times each rule has executed
* The rules that are executed for each defined test scenario

Follow the procedure to generate a coverage report for rule-based test scenarios:

.Prerequisites
* The rule-based test scenario template are created for the selected test scenario. For more information about creating rule-based test scenarios, see xref:test-designer-create-test-template-rule-based-proc[].
* The individual test scenarios are defined. For more information about defining a test scenario, see xref:test-designer-test-scenario-definition-proc[].

.Procedure
. Open the rule-based test scenarios in the test scenario designer.
. Run the defined test scenarios.
. Click *Coverage Report* on the right of the test scenario designer to display the test coverage statistics.
. Optional: To download the test scenario coverage report, Click *Download report*.

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-4441-master: Added a note in coverage reports for rule-based test scenarios section as per QE review.

doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-coverage-report-rule-based-proc.adoc, after:

[id='test-scenarios-coverage-report-rule-based-proc']
= Generating coverage reports for rule-based test scenarios

In rule-based test scenarios, the *Coverage Report* tab contains the detailed information about the following:

* Number of available rules
* Number of fired rules
* Percentage of fired rules
* Percentage of executed rules represented as a pie chart
* Number of times each rule has executed
* The rules that are executed for each defined test scenario

Follow the procedure to generate a coverage report for rule-based test scenarios:

.Prerequisites
* The rule-based test scenario template are created for the selected test scenario. For more information about creating rule-based test scenarios, see xref:test-designer-create-test-template-rule-based-proc[].
* The individual test scenarios are defined. For more information about defining a test scenario, see xref:test-designer-test-scenario-definition-proc[].
+
NOTE: To generate the coverage report for rule-based test scenario, you must create at least one rule.

.Procedure
. Open the rule-based test scenarios in the test scenario designer.
. Run the defined test scenarios.
. Click *Coverage Report* on the right of the test scenario designer to display the test coverage statistics.
. Optional: To download the test scenario coverage report, Click *Download report*.
