doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-running-locally-proc.adoc, before:

[id='test-scenarios-running-locally-proc']
= Running a test scenario locally

In {PRODUCT}, you can run tests in two ways. One way is click the *Run Test* image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-run-test-icon.png[Run Test icon] icon at the top of the Test Scenarios designer. The other way is to run the tests locally using the command line.

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, go to *Menu* -> *Design* -> *Projects* and click the project name.
. On the Project's home page, select the *Settings* tab.
. Select *git* *URL* and click the *Clipboard* image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-clipboard-icon.png[Copy to clipboard icon] to copy the git url.
. Open a command terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to clone the git project.
. From your project's directory run the following command:
+
[source]
----
git clone your_git_project_url
----
+
Replace `your_git_project_url` with relevant data like `git://localhost:9418/MySpace/ProjectTestScenarios`.
. Once the project is successfully cloned, navigate to the git project directory and execute the following command:
+
[source]
----
mvn clean test
----
Your project's build information and the test results (such as, the number of tests run and whether the test run was a success or not) are displayed in the command terminal. In case of errors, correct them and run the command again.

Commit message:

BXMSDOC-4007-master: Incorporated the changes on the basis of QE review in the entire test scenario document.

doc-content/drools-docs/src/main/asciidoc/AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-running-locally-proc.adoc, after:

[id='test-scenarios-running-locally-proc']
= Running a test scenario locally

In {PRODUCT}, you can either run the test scenarios directly in {CENTRAL} or locally using the command line.

.Procedure
. In {CENTRAL}, go to *Menu* -> *Design* -> *Projects* and click the project name.
. On the Project's home page, select the *Settings* tab.
. Select *git* *URL* and click the *Clipboard* image:AuthoringAssets/test-scenarios-clipboard-icon.png[Copy to clipboard icon] to copy the git url.
. Open a command terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to clone the git project.
. Run the following command:
+
[source]
----
git clone your_git_project_url
----
+
Replace `your_git_project_url` with relevant data like `git://localhost:9418/MySpace/ProjectTestScenarios`.
. Once the project is successfully cloned, navigate to the git project directory and execute the following command:
+
[source]
----
mvn clean test
----
Your project's build information and the test results (such as, the number of tests run and whether the test run was a success or not) are displayed in the command terminal. In case of failures, make the necessary changes in {CENTRAL}, pull the changes and run the command again.
